Incorporating content and sections illustrating the information model in English text (#65)
ietf-rats/draft-birkholz-rats-corim: draft-birkholz-rats-corim.md

## Extensibility

Both the CoRIM and the CoMID specification include extension points using CDDL sockets (see {{RFC8610}} Section 3.9). The use of CDDL sockets allow for well-formed extensions to be defined in supplementary CDDL definitions that support additional uses of CoRIM and CoMID.

There are two types of extensibility supported via the extension points defined in this document. Both types allow for the addition of keys in the scope of a map.

Custom Keys:

: The CDDL definition allows for the use of negative integers as keys. These keys cannot take on a well-defined global semantic. They can take on custom-defined semantics in a limited or local scope, e.g. vendor-defined scope.

Registered Keys:

: Additional keys can be registered at IANA via separate specifications.

Both types of extensibility also allow for the definition of new nested maps that again in includes additionally defined keys.

## Type Names, Prefixes, and Namespaces

> The semantics of the information elements (attributes) defined by CoRIM, CoMID, and CoSWID are sometimes very similar, but do not share the same scope or are slightly different. In order to not overload the semantics of the already existing semantics of the software-centric IANA registries of CoSWID with, for example, hardware-centric semantics of CoMID, new type names are introduce. For example: both CoSWID and CoMID define a tag-id. As CoSWID already specifies "tag-id", CoMID prefixes that type name with "comid." to disambiguate the context, resulting in "comid.tag-id". This prefixing provides a well-defined scope for the use of that the named type defined in this document and guarantees interoperability (no type name collisions) with the CoSWID CDDL definition. Effectively, the prefixes used in this specification enable simple hierarchical namespaces. The prefixing introduced is also based on the anticipated namespace features for CDDL. <!-- FIXME: ref to upcoming CDDL Namespaces I-D -->

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The semantics of the information elements (attributes) defined by CoRIM, CoMID, and CoSWID are sometimes very similar, but do not share the same scope or are slightly different. In order to not overload the already existing semantics of the software-centric IANA registries of CoSWID with, for example, hardware-centric semantics of CoMID, new type names are introduced. For example: both CoSWID and CoMID define a tag-id. As CoSWID already specifies `tag-id`, CoMID prefixes that type name with `comid.` to disambiguate the context, resulting in `comid.tag-id`. This prefixing provides a well-defined scope for the use of the types defined in this document and guarantees interoperability (no type name collisions) with the CoSWID CDDL definition. Effectively, the prefixes used in this specification enable simple hierarchical namespaces. The prefixing introduced is also based on the anticipated namespace features for CDDL. <!-- FIXME: ref to upcoming CDDL Namespaces I-D -->
```

  ? comid.reference-triples => one-or-more<reference-triple-record>
  ? comid.endorsed-triples => one-or-more<endorsed-triple-record>
  ? comid.attest-key-triples => one-or-more<attest-key-triple-record>
  ? comid.identity-triples => one-or-more<identity-triple-record>
  * $$triples-map-extension
}>
~~~

The following describes each member of the triple-map container.

comid.reference-triples:

: A directed property that associates reference measurements with a module that is a Target Environment.

comid.endorsed-triples:

: A directed property that associates endorsed measurements with a module that is a Target Environment or Attesting Environment.

comid.attest-key-triples:

: A directed property that associates key material used to verify evidence generated from a module that is an attesting environment.

comid.identity-triples:

: A directed property that associates key material used to identify a module instance or a module class that is an identifying part of a device(-set).

$$triples-map-extension:

: This CDDL socket is used to add new information elements to the triples-map container. See FIXME.

{: #model-environment-map}
## The environment-map Container

> This map represents the module(s) that a triple-map can point directed properties (relationships) from in order to associate them with external information for remote attestation, such as reference values, endorsement and endorsed values, verification key material for evidence, or identifying key material for module (re-)identification. This map can identify a single module instance via `comid.instance` or groups of modules via `comid.group`. Referencing classes of modules requires the use of the more complex `class-map` container. This rule and its constraints MUST be followed when generating or validating a CoMID tag.

Reviewer 2: The document and text looks great! Few minor comments here!

1) Kindly introduce class concept to the reader first and then instance and group concept.

2) Perhaps the class definition can be slightly simplified, on the following lines:
This map can identify a either a module class which identifies a device family  via `comid.class`  or a single module instance via via `comid.instance` or groups of modules via `comid.group`.

comid.instance:

: An identifier for distinct instances of environments/modules that is either a UEID or a UUID.

comid.group:

: An identifier for a group of environments/modules that is a UUID.

## The class-map Container

This map enables a composite identifier intended to uniquely identify modules that are of a distinct class of devices. Effectively, all provided members in combination are a composite module class identifier.  This rule and its constraints MUST be followed when generating or validating a CoMID tag. This rule and its constraints MUST be followed when generating or validating a CoMID tag.

~~~~ CDDL
class-map = non-empty<{
  ; TODO(tho) add text "class-map SHOULD include class-id"
  ? comid.class-id => $class-id-type-choice
  ? comid.vendor => tstr
  ? comid.model => tstr
  ? comid.layer => uint
  ? comid.index => uint
}>

$class-id-type-choice /= tagged-oid-type
$class-id-type-choice /= tagged-impl-id-type
$class-id-type-choice /= tagged-uuid-type
~~~~

The following describes each member of the class-map container.

{: #model-measurement-values-map}
## The measurement-map and measurement-values-map Containers

> One of the targets (range) that a triple-map can point to in order to associate it with a module (domain) is the measurement-map. This map is used to provide reference measurements values that can be compared with Evidence Claim values or Endorsements and endorsed values from other sources than the corresponding CoRIM. `measurement-map` comes with a measurement key that identifies the measured element with via a OID reference or a UUID. `measurement-values-map` contains the actual measurements associated with the module(s). Byte strings with corresponding bit masks that highlights which bits in the byte string are used as reference measurements or endorsement are located in `raw-value-group`. The members of `measurement-values-map` provide well-defined and well-scoped semantics for reference measurement or endorsements with respect to a given module instance, class, or group. This rule and its constraints MUST be followed when generating or validating a CoMID tag.

Reviewer 2: Considering the length of statement, request please consider simple split on the following lines:

This map is used to provide (a) reference measurements values that can be compared with Evidence Claim values - reported from other sources, example attesting device.
AND/OR (b) Endorsements that can be compared with endorsed values received from other sources than the corresponding CoRIM.
